My name is Patrick Heynen and I'm here to
talk to you about high resolution again,
but this time in a new
and more trickier fashion.
So what are we really,
what's the purpose of this talk?
Well,
any of you who have been involved in
writing real products know that 80%
of the tasks are easy and it's that
last 10 to 15% that's where a lot of
the important stuff happens to make
your product actually go out the door.
So what we're going to do in this session
is try to go deeper into high resolution,
pull back the covers a bit,
talk a little bit about
how some of that works,
and how to take full advantage of all the
new APIs to achieve full pixel precision.
So that you can both work around any sort
of subtle bugs you might have and achieve
the highest quality you possibly can.
Also leveraging advanced
technologies under high
resolution if you're using those,
things like Core Automation and OpenGL.
And just how to get the best visual
quality and performance for your
application on these wonderful,
new machines that you may have
hopefully had a chance to look
at and play with this week.
All right.
So what are we hoping that you
will learn in this session?
How to work with OpenGL contexts.
We're going to cover some very
specific things about OpenGL contexts
that apply to usage in AppKit and
high resolution displays.
Also,
if your application takes advantage of
Core Animation directly and you have
custom Core Animation layer trees,
there are some unique considerations
that we're going to tell you
about how to handle them properly.
Also, drawing into off-screen bitmaps,
you know, it's not all about on-screen
into window drawings.
All the things that we made easy,
you know, artwork and all the Quartz,
you know, resolution independent drawing,
well,
sometimes you have to do stuff yourself,
right?
You have to draw into pixel,
into bitmaps yourself.
We're going to cover some of the things
you need to be aware of for that.
And most importantly, once again,
I want to remind you the thing that
makes high resolution different on the
Mac and the Mac different in general
from iOS Retina is that we have a
much more dynamic display environment.
And you can have multiple displays
and you can have any one display
going between low resolution
and high resolution at any time,
given the way the Mac works.
It's a much more dynamic
kind of environment.
That's a strength,
but it's also a situation
that your software needs to
really take into account.
and handle appropriately.
Then we're going to go into sort
of an interesting deep dive,
but an important one,
because text is really the
primary feature of Retina.
If you've had a chance to
look at these displays,
it's all about the text.
You just look at that and you're like,
wow, this is almost like looking
at a laser printout.
Well, but there are some implications
for some of the text and font
technologies that we have in our system.
And for those of you who spend a lot
of time with text in your applications,
you may want to be aware of these.
Also, just some final,
some best practices throughout
all these different sections
about how to achieve quality and
performance under high resolution.
So we've got a lot of material here.
Hope you had your coffee.
As a brief backgrounder,
before we dive into the
individual sections,
I just want to go over what the
technology we're talking about is,
if you haven't been to
the introduction talk.
We have new high resolution
display modes for Retina displays.
And the consequence of
this is that screen.
Screens and windows each have a two
to one pixel per point density ratio.
And the frameworks are providing
automatic scaling to your applications
to ensure consistent coordinate
system between 1X and 2X operation.
It means your software sees the
same thing going on for screen,
view,
and window coordinate systems across both
standard resolution and high resolution,
which is great for compatibility,
but it doesn't mean you're
abstracted from the pixels.
So sometimes you need to
know about the pixels,
and that's what this talk is about.
And then, of course, finally,
the Quartz Window Manager ensures
consistent presentation
across multiple displays.
This is what's allowing things like
window drags between a high resolution
retina panel and a low resolution
external display to work seamlessly.
But there are some details
which we're going to go into.
Okay, speaking of details,
I'd like to bring up Mr.
Chris Dreessen, who's going to tell you
all about Innis Image.
Thank you, Patrick.
So let's talk about NS Image.
As most of you probably know NS Image can
contain multiple NS Image reps.
And until now you've probably not
been taking advantage of that feature.
You've most likely been using a single
bitmap representation in your artwork.
So now that you have let's say
two bitmap representations,
how does NS Image pick which one to draw?
And the important thing to bear
in mind when you're wondering how
an NS Image does this is that it
doesn't actually make a distinction
between high and low resolution.
It really just cares about pixels.
Specifically when you draw,
it's going to try to
find the representation,
the smallest bitmap representation that
has as many pixels as the destination.
So a picture is worth a thousand words.
In high resolution it's
probably worth 4,000 words.
So I don't want to show
you what I mean by that.
So we've got our image here that
has a 1X ping and a 2X ping.
And it's probably a little tough to
see on screen but you can definitely
tell the 1X one has less detail.
And physically they're the same size.
But 1X is the same size.
And you can see that the
image is a little bit smaller.
image is a little bit bigger.
And you can see that the
image is a little bit smaller.
But the 2X one has way more pixels.
And from NS Image's perspective, though,
it looks like this.
We've got a 2X representation
that's much larger.
So if we're drawing without
any scaling into a 1X and
2X destination respectively,
it's kind of easy to figure
out what's going to happen.
Draw without any scaling, 1X gets 1X,
2X gets 2X.
But what happens if we do
something a little unexpected?
Let's say we draw to something
that's 100 pixels tall.
by 150 pixels wide.
What are we going to get?
And it's not the 1x representation.
We're actually going to
get the 2x representation.
And you can see it's stretched there.
And this produces a better quality
result because we're working with more
pixels from the 2x representation.
But there's a few places where this
might happen and you might be a bit
surprised by this result instead
of pleased by the higher quality.
Specifically if you're stretching images,
especially three-part images or banners.
Like in this case we've got two end
caps that aren't going to be scaled
and a middle piece that's going to
be stretched over the entire center.
And what happens at 2x is we're going to
notice there's no scaling involved on the
end caps and draw the 1x representations.
In the center piece we're going to
notice we're covering a lot more
pixels than the 1x representation has.
And the 2x representation involves
stretching a little bit less.
And that's probably not what you want,
especially if you have a clever
artist that's taking advantage
of the extra pixels and isn't
giving you just scaled up,
scaled down artwork.
So if you're hitting this case,
we recommend instead of
drawing these yourself,
you use NSDraw3partImage
and NSDraw9partImage.
And these are going to tile the
image instead of stretching it.
So what do I mean by tiling?
Well, if you take a look at these images
here with this grass texture,
this is stretching.
You can see the middle piece is -- well,
I hate to say the word again,
but stretched.
If we're tiling,
we don't actually pull it out like that.
We instead go ahead and draw the image
multiple times adjacent to each other.
So if your image is only, say,
one pixel wide or one pixel tall
and you're stretching it like that,
you're not going to notice a difference.
But tiling gives us the information
we need to know that we don't
actually have to scale this thing
and choose a 2x representation.
If you really don't want to tile,
like you have a gradient or
something you're trying to stretch,
consider this API called
setMatchesOnlyOnBestFittingAxis.
It tells the NS image that if one of the
image reps fits perfectly on one axis,
it's okay to use it even if the
other rep fits a little bit better
on the other axis but not perfectly.
So the other thing I want to mention
here is if you're drawing off screen,
which is you're probably using
NSImage lock focus and unlock focus,
there's a few things you
should really be aware of.
The first is try not to
use NSImage lock focus.
And the reason is that
your drawing is going to be
flattened into a single bitmap.
So all of the color space information
and resolution information of that
bitmap is going to be crystallized there.
You're going to throw away detail.
We have a new API in 10.8 called image
with size flipped drawing handler.
Drawing handler is a block there.
So if you were using lock
focus and unlock focus before,
all that code between those two calls
you'd now sandwich in your block.
And I want to especially call out how
this behaves with regards to caching.
Basically,
the first time we draw the image,
we're going to invoke your drawing
block into an offscreen bitmap that's
appropriate for the destination.
So if we're going to a 1x window,
we're going to invoke
it against a 1x bitmap.
And then if that image is
drawn repeatedly there,
we're going to draw from the
bitmap and not invoke your block.
If that window is then, say,
moved to a 2x screen,
the next time it draws,
we're going to re-invoke your
block into a 2x bitmap and then
redraw that bitmap as necessary.
So you have that caching behavior.
You don't have to worry about losing
performance by switching to this if you
had a lock focus based version before.
The other thing I want to mention is if
you're trying to manage your own bitmap
caches of vector artwork or other things,
you may be able to get away
with just using this instead
of managing it yourself.
There are some cases where you're not
going to be able to use that because,
say, you're capturing transient state in
your drawing and having the block
invoked repeatedly might invoke
different things and it's not worth
your effort to capture that state.
Or capturing the bitmap is just fine.
And that works,
but you need to be aware of a few things.
The first is you're going to still
want to create a multirep image.
And you're going to do that by explicitly
creating an NSBitmap image rep.
And this is what lock focus
is doing behind the scenes.
So if you look at our snippet here,
it looks like a lot of code.
It's actually just two
method invocations.
But the important thing I want you
to look at are the pixels wide and
pixel high arguments on line 3 and 4
here where you see we're multiplying
our width and heights by whatever
scale factor we're targeting.
I said we want to add
multiple bitmap image reps.
So we're going to call this probably
once for 1x and once for 2x.
And if you notice the very bottom
line we're calling my rep set
size with the size and points.
And what that's doing is we have
a virtual size and points and the
physical size and pixels and that lets
us know the resolution of the image.
And that's important when we
get to drawing it in a second.
So the next thing you're going to do is
you're going to use NSGraphicsContext
to render into this bitmap.
And this is going to be a sequence
of calls where you're going to tell
NSGraphicsContext to save the current
graphic state so that any existing
drawing that's going on has something
to return to that makes sense.
You're going to replace
the current context,
and you're going to do it
using this method here.
NSGraphicsContext,
GraphicsContextWithBitmapImageRep.
And that takes the bitmap
image rep we just created.
And I was mentioning calling
setSize explicitly to
communicate that resolution.
That's very important here because
this will set up the transformation
matrix on the context automatically.
And then in here we're just
drawing a red rectangle here.
And this code doesn't have to care
whether or not we're drawing at 1X or 2X.
The scaling handled by the
context does that for us.
And finally, when we're done drawing,
we restore the current graphic state.
And that allows us -- we're
called within a view's drawRect.
The view can do other
drawing and whatnot.
If we don't call that,
we're going to have problems.
So the takeaway from that, though,
is really NSGraphicsContext will
automatically set up the scale for you
if you've built the NSImageRep correctly.
And you should really try
to take advantage of that.
The other thing I want to call out
again is you do need to invoke that
code multiple times to get best results.
One for your 1x screen,
one for your 2x screen.
Some other things I wanted to call out.
There's a few methods in NSImage we'd
really like you to move off of now.
Caposite to point, dissolve to point.
And the problems are they
don't fully respect the
context transformation matrix.
And you'll notice a lot of our drawing
these days at 1x and 2x really ties in
with that context transformation matrix.
Most of the time we get it right,
but there's edge cases.
And if you move off of these,
you won't hit them.
A good rule of thumb here is that if
the method doesn't begin with draw,
don't use it to draw the NSImage.
Instead, here's the master drawing
method for NSImage.
Draw on rect, from rect, operation,
fraction, respect, flip, hints.
It sounds like a mouthful,
but if you look at this
little snippet here,
the important part is really just
the destination rect parameter.
Everything else you can just
copy and paste the code here.
It'll be available later.
But that'll handle 90%
of your drawing cases,
probably more.
So that covers what I want
to tell you about NSImage.
I know some of you are
doing OpenGL stuff,
and you're going to be interested
in this next section about
OpenGL and high resolution.
And if you just run your app today
on modified on one of these systems,
you're going to notice
things look scaled up,
and that's because we create the
surfaces at the standard 1x resolution.
This is the most compatible thing to do
because points and pixels still match,
but it's not the result
you're probably looking for.
If you want to have nice,
crisp results on these displays,
you're going to need to do a little
bit of work to opt in to this.
And you do that using this
new NSView method called
SetOnceBestResolutionOpenGLSurface.
And you pass yes,
and that tells us that we can
allocate a full 2x surface for you.
And you have to do a
little bit more than that,
though.
If you don't update
your GL viewport code,
you're going to find your
drawing in the wrong place.
And GL viewport takes
arguments in pixels.
And until now,
you've probably been propagating -- or
getting your arguments for GL viewport
by just asking for your view's bounds.
In 2x, of course, the pixels and points
don't match up anymore.
And there's this method called
ConvertRecToBacking we'd like you to
use that will take your local points
and convert them into display pixels.
And you'll use the results of
that to pass on to GL viewport.
Some other things I want to mention
is that if you're doing UI stuff,
you're probably going to want to
incorporate the UI stuff by scale
factor into your model view transform.
And that's so things like buttons and
text appear the same size physically
in the real world as they did before.
Otherwise,
it's tricky to click very tiny buttons.
The other thing is we
have way more pixels.
You'll probably want to update
your texture resources to
take full advantage of them.
Let's go ahead and show you exactly
what I was talking about here with
the chess application in Mac OS X.
You're probably all familiar with chess.
And let's just run it here.
We're on a 2x screen,
and this is an unmodified
version of the chess program.
And if we go ahead and look at our board,
zoom in, you're going to notice the
pieces are a little blocky.
Like, especially if you compare the
text up here with the pieces,
you'll notice they're not the
resolution we want to be rendering at.
So I mentioned we had to opt in.
And I'm not especially
familiar with Chess,
but I do know they use an OpenGL view.
So I'm just going to find
where their OpenGL view is.
They have this MBC Board View class.
And let's check the implementation
of it and just find the init method.
So here's init with frame in
their OpenGL view subclass.
And here's the call to
super init with frame.
And if we just add a self,
set once best resolution
OpenGL surface here,
we can see the results.
So that looks crisper.
I mean, these pixels are a lot sharper,
but there's a problem.
I'm not quite sure what it is.
Oh, oh, the board is really tiny.
That's the problem.
So I mentioned we had to
update our call to GL viewport.
It's expecting arguments in pixels.
So let's just see where
we're calling GL viewport.
Here it is in MBC board view draw.
And we have this variable called bounds.
If we scroll up,
we can see that bounds is
definitely equal to self bounds.
So if we just do self
convert rec to backing,
and pass in the existing bounds argument.
Now we're going to have
a bounds rect in pixels.
Let's see what that looks like.
That is the right size.
And if we zoom in,
we notice these pieces are really crisp.
They match our game
center warning resolution,
too.
So that's fantastic.
So that was a simple case.
There's more complicated ones.
But for a lot of cases,
this will be exactly what you need to do.
So some other things
you should be aware of.
GL viewport isn't the only thing
that takes device-dependent geometry.
It's not the only thing
that takes pixels.
Scissors, stencils,
many other OpenGL functions
do expect input in pixels,
so you're going to need to modernize your
code to use convert_rec to backing or
convert_point to backing there as well.
In general,
we find it may be easier to just,
when dealing with OpenGL,
convert all of your inputs into
pixel space and then back into
whatever your OpenGL world looks like.
You don't have to do this,
but it tends to simplify things.
The other bit, if you have pre-rendered
text or GUI elements,
you're going to want to re-render
those and probably have separate 1x
and 2x versions that you can display.
Text especially looks not so
great when we scale it up or down.
Something else you should be aware of,
if you're using multi-sample
anti-aliasing or other
full-scene anti-aliasing stuff,
it's really expensive,
especially with regards to memory,
and you might find that that
memory usage is better spent
on higher quality textures.
So you might try turning it off
or just dialing down via the
multi-sampling factor you're using.
Some other notes if you're
doing OpenGL full screen.
Some of you are capturing the
display and changing the resolution,
and we'd really prefer if
you stopped doing that.
Instead, create a window that
covers the entire screen.
And some of you may have been concerned
about performance problems using a window
instead of a full screen OpenGL context,
and we actually detect this case and
go ahead and make sure your bits get
to the screen as fast as possible.
So there's no performance penalty for
having an OpenGL full screen window
as opposed to capturing the display.
And the other thing this lets us do
is present critical system alerts.
So I mentioned this convert
rec to backing method.
What do I mean when I say backing?
Let's talk about backing
coordinate systems.
Backing coordinate systems are
really what we're talking about
whenever we're referring to bitmaps.
And you're most likely going to
deal with these in a Cocoa world
if you're calling convert rec to
backing or convert rec to backing.
It's a method that exists on NSView,
NSWindow, and NSScreen.
NSView also has methods to convert
points and sizes to backing.
Let's discuss the specifics of that
coordinate system a little bit.
So the first thing is that
the units in the back-end
coordinate system are in pixels.
I don't think anyone's surprised by that.
And it's the standard Cocoa coordinate
system orientation where the lower left
is increasingly negative coordinates,
and as you go to increasingly
positive coordinates,
you're approaching the upper right.
So that means that you can say
floor value to move it down
or seal value to move it up.
And finally, the integral values in the
space are pixel aligned.
And you'll notice I didn't say
anything about absolute coordinates,
and that's because we don't actually
make any guarantees about what the
local coordinate to back-end coordinate
transformation is going to look like.
Specifically, don't anticipate that just
because your bounds origin is 0,
0, that your bounds origin and
back-end coordinates is 0,
0.
The view can be rendered to a surface or
a layer or have various flips involved on
its way up to the window back-end store.
So you're going to see some weird
coordinates every now and then.
Like you'll throw in a positive
view coordinate and get back a
very negative back-end coordinate.
And don't be surprised by that.
If you're concerned about distances or
relative to a certain point in your view,
convert that point to back-end also and
do your calculations in back-end space
and treat them as relative coordinates.
Finally, the back-end coordinate
system is different for
every view window and screen.
So if you use convert rect to back-end
and are trying to round trip data,
make sure you use the exact same object
to call convert rect from back-end on it.
If you mix and match objects doing that,
you're going to have
really weird results.
So a few of you are
here for core animation,
I'm sure.
Let's talk a bit about
core animation now.
Especially if you're managing
custom CA layer content,
here's some things you should know.
One, on Mountain Lion,
layer bounds and position are in points.
They're virtual.
And to get results that are
appropriate for the display,
you need to be aware of the contents
properties and contents scale properties.
If you're getting the
contents scale wrong,
you're most likely going to
see unsatisfactory results.
The other thing you should be aware of
is if you're playing with the contents
gravity property of your layer,
that's going to affect the positioning
of the bitmaps within that layer.
We'll talk a bit more
about that in a moment.
If you're using the
drawLayerInContext delegate method
or subclassing drawInContext,
these will already conclude the
scaling if you are adjusting the
contents scale of the layer correctly.
Provided you're doing that,
you don't have to modify
any of your drawing codes.
So that's kind of a handy thing to know.
Another thing that's handy to know
is that you can use an NSImage
as the contents of a layer.
This is really convenient.
We just have this one-line snippet here.
And this works for
multi-resolution images.
Let me describe how we pick a
representation to use in this case.
Basically,
we go ahead and look at the resolution
of the screen the layer tree is on.
So if you're on a 1X screen,
we're going to pick the representation
most suitable for 1X inside the image.
If you're on a 2X screen,
we're going to pick the representation
most suitable for 2X on the image.
And that probably covers 80%
of cases you'll care about.
It's really handy.
But there's some edge cases you should be
aware of if you're doing fancier things.
And let me illustrate those for you.
So we have our cake image again
with 1X and 2X cake variants.
And here's a layer tree where we're
just displaying a centered layer here.
So on 1X, we display the 1X image.
And on 2X, we display the 2X image.
So far, so good.
But let's say we change
the transform on the layer,
the bounds on the layer,
so it's larger now.
What we're going to see is
that the 1X screen is going
to be a little bit bigger.
And on the 2X screen,
even though we could use the 2X screen
and get more pixels and display them,
it doesn't happen.
And that's because we don't actually
know the display size of the layer.
We just know the resolution
of the screen it's on.
I mentioned contents gravity.
Contents gravity is used in conjunction
with content scaling to -- or to
-- or content scale to position
the contents within the layer.
By default, the contents gravity is
one of the resize modes,
which doesn't affect the content
scale or ignores the content
scale once positioning it.
If you're using a non-resize
mode like top left here,
you'll notice that when
we provide the 2X mode,
Core Animation treats it like a 1X bitmap
and displays it in a much larger area.
So instead of just showing
the wrong number of pixels,
we're actually drawing
things incorrectly.
And that's true for various other
non-resize orientations like top right.
So to summarize those images,
we can't pick up transforms and
bounds changes in the layers.
And additionally, if you're using NSImage
as a layer content,
you need to be sure your contents
gravity is one of resize,
resize aspect, or resize fill.
Now suppose you do want to take advantage
of bounds changes or transforms or you
want a non-resize contents gravity,
we have API for you.
So that API comes in the form
of two methods on NSImage,
recommended layer content scale and
layer contents for content scale.
Recommended layer content scale,
you pass in a desired content scale.
So let's say you're in a
2X window and you have a 3X
transform attached to your layer,
you would go ahead and say,
"Recommended layer content scale
6." And NSImage will return the
content scale most appropriate
for the image reps in that image.
So if you're doing the standard 1X,
2X bitmap configuration in that image,
we'll go ahead and say, "Well,
2 is way closer to 6 than 1,
so we're going to say 2 is the
desired content scale you want to
use." If it were a PDF image rep or
something resolution-independent,
we would instead probably
return the factor you pass in.
And that can be used in
conjunction with the next method,
layer contents for content scale.
In that, you pass in the content scale
you're going to set on the layer,
and we give you back an opaque object
to set as the contents of the layer.
And if you use those two in sync,
you can use all the contents gravity
modes just fine in Core Animation.
So I mentioned the content scale here,
and you're probably wondering how
do you know about that and how
do you react to changes in that?
And at the layer level,
we have this new delegate method called
layerShouldInheritContentScaleFromWindow.
And it returns a Boolean.
If you return yes from this method,
we're going to go ahead and update the
content scale of the layer to match the
scale we've passed in this method and
then call setNeedsDisplay on the layer.
So if you're using the
drawLayerInContextDelegate method,
this is a very natural pairing
for you to automatically update
the content scale and redraw.
If you return no, we're going to keep our
hands off the layer,
and you can instead take this
opportunity to update the contents
and content scale yourself.
Something you should be aware of,
if you do return yes from this,
you absolutely need to implement
displayLayer or drawLayerInContext.
And the reason for this is that
when you mark a layer as dirty,
which we'll do when you return yes,
it blows away the existing
contents on the layer.
So if you don't implement
displayLayer or drawLayerInContext,
you're going to notice the contents of
your layer disappears instead of being
updated for the resolution you want,
which is probably not the
effect you're going for.
The other bit to be aware of
is that this delegate method,
it's not invoked by CoreAnimation.
It's actually invoked by NSView.
So if you add a layer to an
existing layer tree that's hosted,
we don't know about it,
and we can't invoke that
delegate method for you.
The takeaway from that is when
you're creating these layers,
you should probably take care to
set the content scale manually.
And you can do that by asking the
window for its backing scale factor,
for example.
And let's go ahead and see what
taking this advice looks like.
This is the unmodified
version of the app.
So on the left is a layer that uses
draw layer and context to draw.
And within that it uses the
NSImage draw and rect method as
well as NSRect fill with a blue
color to make the blue background.
The layer on the right is
actually set by setting the
background color of the CA layer,
setting the contents gravity to center,
and setting the contents to our NSImage.
And so it's displaying
more or less correctly,
but those are some really fuzzy cakes.
If we go ahead and look
at our KCAT 2X PNG,
the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to add it to our target.
And we've updated our artwork.
Everything should look great.
And we can see the image on
the left doesn't look so great.
It's still pretty blurry.
And the image on the right
is the different size.
So we're getting very different
results than what we had before.
And let me show you how
we set up that layer.
So an application did
finish launching here.
The layer on the left,
it's pretty simple.
We just set ourselves as the delegate,
set needs display,
and call set needs display
on ourselves there.
The one on the right does
exactly as I said where it
sets the background color,
the contents gravity,
and it calls this configure contents
for view two method which just
sets the contents to an NS image.
Using layers should
inherit content scale.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And let's take this one layer at a time.
So we're going to start by working
with the layer on the left.
Let's just add this delegate method here.
So we're going to go ahead and run this.
And you'll note nothing has changed.
The image still looks
just like it did before.
So the problem with this is
that when we call -- when we
set the layer on this view,
it's already hosted in a window.
So we don't get the notification
that we're adding a layer to it all.
And this method is never invoked.
And the solution to that is to
update the content scale manually.
So I mentioned the window
backing scale factor method,
and that's something we can use here.
So we just add view1.layer.contentScale
equals view1.windowbackingscaleFactor.
And now we see a -- well,
it may be difficult for
you to see out there,
but this is a much crisper 2X
variation of the cake image.
Let's go ahead and start
working on the right side layer,
the one that's using the layer
properties to display itself.
So I mentioned we're using the contents
gravity of contents gravity center,
which means we can't just set the image
as the contents of the layer anymore.
So let's go ahead and update this
method to use an explicit content scale.
So in this case,
we have our new configure contents
review to method that takes a scale,
and it goes ahead and
grabs the cake image again,
and then asks for the recommended
content scale for that image,
and we go ahead and
set that on the layer,
and then also pass this to the
layer contents for content scale
method and update the layer
contents using the result of that.
So we've changed our method name here.
Let's go ahead and just start with
a 1X scale and see what happens.
And we've noticed now that we are
actually getting a pretty decent result.
It's still the 1X image.
It's not as sharp as it should be.
So we want to update this to be
similar to our code here where we're
manually passing the scale factor.
Instead of using
view1.window.back_in_scale_factor,
we're going to use
view2.window.back_in_scale_factor.
And now you can see we're getting
consistent drawing between the
left and right layers again,
which is exactly what we wanted,
and it's using our 2x resources.
So that's great.
That's what we were targeting.
I mentioned we were handling
this layer by layer.
We added layer should
inherit content scale,
but we didn't handle layer 2 in it.
And in this case,
it doesn't make a difference
because we're not responding
to a dynamic screen change,
but that's something we will have
to respond to in the real world.
So you would add code
like this to notice,
oh, we're talking about layer 2?
Let's call configure contents for
view 2 again with the new scale factor
passed into the delegate method.
And it's very important
that we return no here.
If we were to return yes,
we would blow away the contents
we just set on the layer
and undo all of our work.
All right,
so we've seen using that a bit.
Now, I mentioned the should
inherit content scale method.
So you've probably picked up
that resolutions can change.
Let's talk about that a bit more.
So the resolution can
really change at any time.
You can't necessarily predict
that things will hold constant.
Someone can hot plug an external
display or mirror or extend the desktop.
And just because the internal
display is 2x doesn't mean the
external displays are going to be 2x.
You do have to deal with heterogeneous
environments where you have a 1x
display and a 2x display simultaneously.
And in those cases,
when Windows drag between displays,
it's going to update automatically.
So let's talk a bit more about how
that window updates its resolution.
It's going to try to make its
backing resolution match the backing
resolution of the associated NSScreen.
And that means if you're
straddling displays,
it's going to pick the screen with
the largest part of the window is on.
If you're offscreen entirely,
we're going to do something different.
We're going to use the resolution
of the highest resolution
display attached to the computer.
And when we do change the backing
scale factor of the window,
we post a notification about it.
And that notification is
NSWindowDidChangeBackingProperties.
And that's also called when
the color space or bit depth
of a window changes as well.
If you're using the WindowDelegate,
you can go ahead and implement
WindowDidChangeBackingProperties instead,
which will pass you the
notification as an argument.
Views are similar.
We have a new method on NSView called
ViewDidChangeBackingProperties.
You can subclass that.
There's no equivalent notification.
And that's called when the view
is added to a window or when
the window changes its backing
resolution or the color space changes.
Here's a little snippet demonstrating
what you might do in that method.
Here we call
SuperViewDidChangeBackingProperties.
And if you recall from the demo,
the new NSImageContentScale-based
methods,
we use that to explicitly
manage the contents and content
scale of a layer we're hosting.
Something to be aware of.
The properties -- well, this method,
for one, isn't invoked when a view
is removed from a window.
And additionally, if you were to say,
"Convert REC to backing on a view not
in a window," the view will act as if
it's on the highest resolution screen.
So that's consistent with NSWindow.
The other bit is before you
add a view to the window,
it's doing the same thing.
So I'd like to go ahead and bring
up our resident text expert,
Akie Inoue, to talk about text rendering
in high resolution.
Thank you, Chris.
Good morning.
I'm Aki Inoue.
I'm the text guy from the Cocoa Group.
Today,
I'm gonna cover how you can achieve the
best text quality for your application
in your high-resolution world.
So let's get started with exciting
new stuff in Mountain Lion.
Actually,
there's no new text system API in
order to support high resolution.
Why is that?
The tech system is designed as
resolution diagnostics throughout.
It's been working with no identity
coordinate system for years.
For example,
we've been working with ZoomView in
TextEdit or we've been rendering into
totally resolution independent PDF files.
So there was no need to add new API.
We are introducing some significant
behavior change in Mountain Lion.
Screen Fonts.
We are duplicating the usage of
screen fonts starting mountain lane.
So let's review what screen fonts are.
The screen form is a
variant of your base form,
and it uses integral advances instead
of the default floating point values.
As you can see, with the base font,
the width of the character
is in floating point value.
That's taken from the font file itself.
On the other hand, with screen fonts,
the weather spacing is tweaked so
that the origin of the character is
aligned to the integral position.
Remember, in low resolution,
one point used to be typically one pixel,
so you get the effect of pixel
aligning the character in some cases.
So with this, we were able to achieve
pretty decent text quality
in lower resolution displays.
And, you know,
quotes could be able to use the
same shape bitmap caching easily.
And it used to work with hand-tuned,
ancient, ancient bitmap fonts.
These days,
these advantages are getting less
relevant because of the newer course
technology such as font smoothing,
subpixel quantization,
and on-screen tinting.
And also,
the disadvantages of using screen
fonts are outweighing advantages.
For example, because of the rounding,
the glyphs are spaced uneven.
And the gap created this uneven
spacing is more apparent or uglier
when you're running in high resolution.
Also,
we are not using kerning or rilature,
the higher advanced typographic
features with screen fonts because
these features are designed with
floating-point value in mind.
So they don't work too
well with integer advances.
And finally,
because of the tweaked letters,
it often doesn't have consistent
scaling between point sizes.
So if your applications are using
multiple font sizes such as graphics
tools or presentation tools,
you might encounter surprises
sometimes caused by this effect.
So as I mentioned before,
using the base 14-point form
gives you the best text quality,
both in low resolution
and high resolution.
Because of that,
these floating point advances are
often referred to as ideal advances.
And that gives you taking
advantage of the higher density
in high resolution because we're
not rounding to pixel alignment.
And we are now enabling Cognitive
Literature everywhere by default.
And this is how actually the font
design was originally imagined.
And you have the uniform
scaling between point sizes and
different coordinate systems.
For those reasons,
we've been actually using the
base fonts in many places.
For example, our system font,
Lucida Grande,
has been using the floating point
advances since Mac OS X 10.0.
And also many applications such as iWorks
been using floating point advances.
And finally, in fact,
iOS itself doesn't have the concept
of the screen formats altogether.
So let's take a look at the screenshot.
This is from 10.7.
We're showing Helvetica
and times from 12.2,
18.
As you can see, the line edges are pretty
much jagged in some places.
And this is how it looks with 10.8.
The lines are scaled smoothly and
consistent between point sizes.
Let's zoom into some of the world.
In 10.7, you might notice the
glyphs are placed unevenly,
and especially between W and E,
the job is pretty ugly.
With 10.8, the glyphs are spaced evenly,
and the W and E are placed
handsomely using kerning.
So take a look at the
actual TextSystem API here.
As you may know,
the Cocoa has three main groups of
text rendering and measuring APIs.
and NSLayoutMonitor.
One of the core tech system APIs,
along with TextView and NSTextStorage,
provides the
Power and extensibility
to the text engine.
And NSStringDraw API,
such as DrawingRack,
gives you a convenient
way to render NSString and
attribute string efficiently.
And NSCell renders many user
interface control strings.
And these APIs can be
categorized into two groups,
Father.
One is for document contents.
NSLayoutManager and other
text system luminaries.
NSTextView and NSTextRage usually take
this burden to support large documents.
And user interface elements
are usually rendered using
NSStreamDrop API and NSCell.
For these groups,
we have the specific API for
controlling the screen font
setting already from 10.0.
For NSLayoutManager,
we have userScreenFont method.
When it returns, yes,
NSLayoutManager uses screen font.
If no, it doesn't.
Similarly, we have
NSStreamDrawingDisabledScreenFontSubst
itution flag.
It's used for extended
stream drawing API,
such as draw with red options.
By specifying this method,
you can disable the substitution
of screen font with these APIs.
So with 10.7, these were set to-- your
screen fonts were set to yes,
and for--
User interface element setting,
it was default to be no,
so we were always using screen fonts,
and on 10.8,
they were flipped so that the layout
manager doesn't use screen fonts,
and NS3 drawing disabled screen
font substitution is implied.
So typically you are
using the font object.
You send NSFontFactory message,
such as font with name size,
and you get back a base font.
And you pass that font object
to one of the text system APIs.
And the tip framework
takes over from there.
You can use these fonts and measure
and render text through these API,
text system APIs.
So your application actually
don't see the screen font itself.
Behind the scene,
the tech system swaps the base font you
specify with its corresponding screen
font dynamically whenever necessary.
There are two APIs for that.
NSLayoutManager, a substitute for phone,
and NSPhoneScreenPhone.
And actually,
this is somewhat what Substitute Font for
Font in NSLab Manager implementation.
It checks if it's supposed
to use screen fonts,
and if so, it calls NSFontScreenFont to
substitute and get the screen font.
So, behind the scene,
the tech system sends the
substitute font for font itself,
and...
Get the screen phone and use it
dynamically for measure and render.
So, as I mentioned that because of
those changes in mountain lying,
you can take advantage
of the higher density.
[Transcript missing]
Because the width of the
letters are different between
screen fonts and idea fonts,
the number of characters that
can fit in the line changes.
And these changes are often you
want to avoid because you want
to have the same appearance of
your document between releases.
So, if your application
falls into this category,
you can manage your screen font
setting per document using,
for example, APIs such as NSLite Manager,
useScreenFont.
And actually, we're introducing a
new document attribute,
an used screen font document attribute
that you can specify so that your
per-document used screen font setting
can be stored into your document data.
And actually,
text edit is already enhanced to take
advantage of new functionalities.
So you can look into the source
example and adopt the same
strategy in your application.
Thank you.
Also, we are introducing a new pref
key and it's phone default
screen for substitution enabled.
It controls the default setting
for the screen font usage.
If your application is
linked against 10.sdk,
it defaults no.
That means you are not
using screen fonts.
And if you're linking
against previous sdk,
it's yes.
So we're preserving the Lion behavior.
So using this key,
you can control your screen fonts,
the default screen font usage
in your application explicitly.
Now I'd like to switch
over to Dan Schimpf,
who's going to discuss the
intricacy of pixel aligning.
Thank you, Akki.
Okay, I'm going to talk about a couple
issues with aligning pixel-based art.
This is most helpful
with drawing UI controls,
like buttons and things.
So what are the issues
that you may run across?
Well,
there are some situations in your drawing
your UI art that may have worked well
at 1x that will seem to fail at 2x.
It'll be out of line.
And this usually comes down
to rounding differences,
causing some layout that, again,
worked at 1x to change at 2x,
just change their values.
And this is because there
are no odd pixels at 2x.
Because everything is doubled,
even three points all of a
sudden becomes six pixels.
So there's no odd pixel values.
So here's a couple examples of
things that actually worked.
So I have a four-point tall space,
and I want to fit something that's
two points big inside of it.
And you can see at 1x, it works out fine.
We can center it just fine.
And at 2x,
the blue bar is in the same spot.
My one point turns into two pixels,
and it's just okay.
Yay.
Same thing works for
odd inside odd as well.
We center it,
one point turns into one pixel,
one point turns into two pixels,
everything's happy.
The trouble begins
When we have even things
inside of an odd space,
we try to center it
at 1x with 1.5 points,
so we round it.
That goes up to two pixels
to have a good appearance.
But at 2x, well,
we have enough pixels that we can
actually put it where it belongs.
So while it's more technically correct,
it's all of a sudden in a different spot.
It's shifted down a bit.
And maybe you've already accounted for
that rounding up in your design at 1x,
and now it looks wrong.
Just for completeness,
here's the equivalent example
of an odd-sized item inside
of an even-sized space.
It shifts down again.
So what do we do?
How do we see these things?
The easiest way to see these things
really is to just look at it.
I mean, you can do a lot of math,
but testing is going to be your key here.
If you have two displays,
it's really the easiest.
If you can set one at 1x and one at 2x,
then you can just drag your window back
and forth between the two displays and
see how it changes as you move them.
So the window switches,
as we said before,
when the window hits the
midpoint of the screen divide.
When a window has more of its screen,
more of its area on the other screen,
the window rebuilds to 2x.
So that's where you can
observe any visual shifts.
Things should stay at the same spot,
at 2x and 1x.
And your eye can really
pick those differences out.
If you only have one display,
don't worry, you can still do this.
Take screenshots in both modes.
And then open them up in preview or any
sort of other image viewer where you can
line them up in the same spot on screen
and scale the 1X screenshot so you can,
again, they'll occupy the same
amount of area on screen,
and then just flip back and forth.
And you can see those same
kind of visual shifts.
So here's an example of a pixel shift.
This is a button with
a glyph inside of it.
And here it is at 1x,
but obviously scaled up
a bit so you can see it.
And I'm going to flip it to 2x.
So it's subtle, but it moved.
It moved up.
I'm going to flip back and forth a bit,
and you can see it.
And while if you're just
sitting there at 2x,
you may not see these sort of things,
but it means your layout is wrong,
your UI is incorrect.
And especially if your
user flips back and forth,
they're going to notice
these kinds of things.
So where's the problem here?
Well, this time it actually
might be the design.
If you can redesign the 1X
appearance to eliminate these odd
inside of even sort of situations,
that's really the best thing
to do because then you get to
have correct math at 2X as well.
If you can't change that because of
legacy concerns or historical reasons,
or maybe you just like it better,
you might have to introduce 2X
specific code just to handle this.
So you can experiment with
the rounding direction.
There's a method backing
aligned rect and options.
You pass it in a rect and it
gives you back a rect that's
aligned on the backing coordinates.
It's not exactly -- it hasn't
changed coordinate spaces,
but it's aligned on a good pixel grid.
And the options that flag that you pass
in provide you explicit control about
how it's rounded in each direction.
So, but if that doesn't work,
you may have to add a half a point or
one pixel if you've got it in pixel
space explicitly when running at 2X.
But as you might tell,
this is a little fragile and not
exactly the cleanest code in the world,
so really do this only
if absolutely necessary.
So scale factors.
We've given you a couple cases
in this session alone about where
scale factors are important,
but there are some cases --
but we want to caution you
from overusing scale factors.
So some background on
coordinate spaces first.
We talked a little bit about
the back-end coordinate space,
but there's some other ones.
Cocoa actually has a lot of them.
Each NSWindow, NSView, CA Layer,
bitmap context that you might have,
and OpenGL context, they each have their
own coordinate space.
To talk about positions,
you have to convert
between one or the other.
And it may seem like a lot of work,
but by dealing in the
correct coordinate space,
your code actually stays cleaner.
And the best part is the scale
factor is already accounted
for in all of these contexts.
So when you want to convert
things from one area to another,
let's say you've got a view,
you want to go to a different view,
you use Convert Rect to View,
and there's also Convert
Point and Convert Size.
If you want to have a view
go to a window coordinates,
you use convert_rect_to_view again,
but you pass in a nil view,
and that will get you the
base window coordinates.
This is also when you have something
like an NS event location window,
you get the point back from an NS event.
That's in window base coordinates,
so you can convert that from the
nil view to get your point back
in your view's coordinate space.
So if you have an NS window,
you want to take something like a point
or a rec to the NS screen that it's on,
you can use convert rec to screen.
And NS view to its hosted CA layer,
you can use convert rec to layer.
And again, we mentioned this before,
but if you have anything and you want to
take it to its backing coordinate space,
you can use Convert Rect to Backing.
So where don't you want
to use scale factors?
Let's say I'm drawing
something in my DrawRect,
and I really want to get something on
a pixel boundary or pixel coordinate.
Well, I can take my frame or my
bounds and get my window scale
factor and do some math myself.
But this is actually not going
to work out in a couple cases.
You don't--if you're in a layer or if
you're in some other kind of context,
you've got some other scaling applied,
and it's also going to be dependent on
the window that you're drawing into.
So the better thing to do is, again,
use these convert back to backing calls,
and that will give you your pixel origin.
Just applying your window scale
factor is not usually the best case.
So some tips with first scale factors.
Work in points wherever possible.
It makes your code cleaner and simpler.
And be prepared for fractional points
and positions at 2x because they're okay.
If you're at 3.5 points,
that's actually 7 pixels.
You're still aligned.
You're okay.
And you want to convert any coordinates
and sizes that you use to the
appropriate space before using them.
Even NSView to NSView,
even if they're in the same parent view,
because they may have special
view-specific transforms.
And if you can get by,
don't ask for the current scale factor.
But if you absolutely need to, again,
some of the cases that we've
discussed in this advanced session,
use your current window or
the tightest context you can.
If you don't have a window
or screen that you can use,
you can ask for its current scale factor.
It might be time to rethink your design.
Because again, some cases where you
have 1x and a 2x display,
what is the right answer there?
It's hard to say.
Okay, and I'm going to hand
it back to Patrick here.
He's going to talk
about onscreen content.
Thank you, Dan.
[Transcript missing]
Now, the difference here,
and this is the important point,
is you need to calculate
that image's size.
Because it's a CG image
you're getting back,
that is not going to be -- its
size and its width and height
are not going to be in points,
rather it's going to be
an image space or pixels.
So in order to create an appropriate
image with that CG image,
you actually need to convert from
backing to compute that size in points.
And you need to do that with the screen
object that you captured from in order
to get the right result so that you get
whether it's a 1X screen or a 2X screen,
you take that into account appropriately.
Here's a little tip.
If you saw the CG display ID, well,
how do you get there from AppKit?
Well, it turns out if you ask the
NSScreen for its device description,
ask that for an object
for key NSScreen number,
it turns out that that is magically and
very usefully the CG direct display ID.
So you can use that to sort of connect
the dots in the sequence of APIs.
Okay.
Now, talking a little bit about app
performance under high resolution.
Really, I'm not going to go into
this nitty-gritty like,
you know, code techniques.
I'm really just going to talk about
the philosophy of performance under
high resolution and give you some
sort of general parameters here.
So first and foremost,
the thing to remember
with these products here,
with this particular product especially,
is your application is going
to be processing four as many
as seven times the amount of
pixels under high resolution.
The 7X, of course,
comes from these wonderful new expanded
desktop high resolution downscaling
modes that you can get to where
it goes up to 1920 by 1200 at 2X.
So that's a lot of pixels.
And you might come away
from that thinking,
how can anything ever possibly be
fast if you have that much more?
It's almost an order of
magnitude more pixel content.
What's going to go on?
Well, I'd like to give you the message,
don't despair.
The hardware is there.
The hardware,
especially on these new products,
is more than capable of handling it,
as can be evidenced if you
have a chance to play with it.
Even the most aggressive system
animations that we do and scrolling
and a lot of dynamic behaviors,
it's more than able to handle
that without even breaking a
sweat and getting out of low power
states or anything like that.
In particular,
the key thing that we have discovered
while developing this product is
that most often performance problems
are not because you're hitting some
fundamental hardware limitation.
Obviously,
I want to say here there are cases
where if you're like a game or really
aggressively focused on GPU programming
where obviously the hardware is going
to be your bottleneck and there's
special considerations for that.
But if you're just a
regular Cocoa application,
it's typically not the case that
you're going to be fundamentally
limited by the hardware.
And most important is to make sure
that your application actually
leverages the system graphics
technologies as much as possible.
Make sure that when you are profiling
your application that you're spending
most of your time asking the system
to do work for you rather than like
waiting for one of your threads
to give a response to the other
one and just waiting around a lot.
Typically we've looked at a lot of
applications and it's usually some sort
of choreography problem rather than a
fundamental software hardware limitation.
Another thing I want to point out
on the topic of performance is
be aware of time space tradeoffs.
Because of this significantly
larger amount of pixels that
your application is processing,
some caching strategies that may
have been advantageous under standard
resolution may no longer be advantageous
under high resolution because now
that you have to suddenly not only
cache 2X sized images but you might
also have to cache both 1X and 2X to
be able to handle any possible display,
it may now,
and especially with the fan-to-fan,
it may now be advantageous to render
all the time and stop caching.
It's a pretty big change and you may
want to revisit the base assumptions
of some of your caching strategies
and make sure that it still fits.